Day 15: Nested functions in python

what Nested function are
why we use them
scope of nested function
closure: returning inner function
real-world examples and use-cases

mini- task for practice
challenges 2 or 3 advanced ones
a bonus task

what are nested function
a nested function is simply:
a function defined inside another function.

The outer function is like a container.
the inner function is hidden and can only be used inside the outer function.

ex. 
def outer():
    print("Outer function called!")
    def inner():
        print("Inner function")
    inner()
outer()


why use nested functions?
1. encapsulation: keep helper function private to the outer one.
2. scoping - inner functions can access variables from the outer function (nonlocal variables)
3. closure: we can return inner functions and retain their state.

mini task 1:
write  a function called greet_user() that:
-defines an inner function ask_name() which returns a username
- uses that username to print a greeting inside a greet_user().

think:
-greet_user() will call ask_name().
-ask_name() can simply return "Alice" for now.

mini challenge: Nested calculator!
what we'll do
-create an outer function calculator() that:
    asks the user to enter two numbers.
    defines an inner function add() to add two numbers.
    defines an inner function multiply() to multiply two numbers
    prints the results.

more on day 15
we'll cover:
1. nested helper functions that work together to solve one larger problem
2. practice nonlocal again, but with more practical examples
3. combine everything in mini-challenge that feel like  small utility program

what is nested funcitons?
a nested function is a function defined inside another function.
i.e 
def outer_fun():
    #outer scope
    def inner_function(): #defined inside outer
        #inner scope
        pass

key points: The inner function can access variables in the outer
function
the inner function is not accessible outside the outer.
nested functions help us:
-break down a complex task into smaller logical chunks.
-encapsulate helper logic that only outer funciton needs.

why nested functions?
think of them like private helper functions.
for ex.
-input validation inside a calculator
-data processing steps inside a report generator

what is nonlocal?
when you want to modify a variable that's in the outer (Enclosing)
function's scope (not global), we use nonlocal

ex.
def outer():
    counter = 0
    def inner():
        nonlocal counter
        counter += 1
        print("Updated counter: ", counter)
    inner()
    inner()
    return counter

-without nonlocal, counter inside inner() would be a new local 
variable and wouldn't change the one outside.

why not global?
global jumps all the way up to the global namespace.
nonlocal stays one level up- this is perfect for nested helper functions.

when to use nonlocal?
whenever:
you want an inner helper to remember/update some state between calls 
you want to implement counters, accumulators, or trackers.

ex. 
def outer():
    x = 10
    def inner():
        nonlocal x
        x += 5
        print("Updated x inside inner():",x)
    inner()
    inner()
    print("x after inner() calls: ", x)
outer()

task 1: counter with nested function
write a function make_counter() that:
-has a variable count initialized to 0.
-inside it, define a nested function increment() that:
    -uses nonlocal to increase count by 1
    prints the current value of count.
-call increment() three times inside make_counter().
finally, call make_counter() to see the output

task 2: nested functions with parameters
Write a function greet(name) that has an inner function get_message() 
which returns a greeting message using the name passed to the outer 
function.

What you need to do:
    Outer function: greet(name)
    Inner function: get_message() uses name from the outer function’s parameter (use closure)
    greet() calls get_message() and prints the greeting message.